On a beautiful summer day, a grasshopper hopped around lazily in the grass. He was warm, happy and well-fed, and he was chirping and singing to himself because life was good.
While the Grasshopper was enjoying the day, an ant carried grains and took them to the nest with great toil.
On seeing the hardworking ant passing by, the Grasshopper invited him to join him and share his fun.
All day long in the summer, the ant would work hard, collecting food while the Grasshopper enjoyed the bright summer days.
The Grasshopper would look at the ant and laugh. ‘Why do you work so hard, dear ant?’ he would say. ‘Come, rest for a while, listen to my song. Summer is here, and the days are long and bright. Why waste the sunshine in labor and toil?’ “I am helping lay up food for the winter,” said the ant, “and recommend you do the same.” “Why to bother about winter?” said the Grasshopper; “We have got plenty of food at present, and there is still plenty of time to prepare for winter.” But the ant knew what he was doing and went on his way and continued his toil.
All-day long, the ant would work, without stop or rest, scurrying back and forth from the field, collecting the grains and storing them carefully in her larder.
Instead of working and preparing for winter, the Grasshopper preferred to dance, sing and play at his leisure. But unfortunately, he did not realize that the beautiful summer days would not last forever, and soon cold and rainy days would soon be near.
Summer faded into autumn, and autumn turned into winter. The sun was hardly seen, the days got shorter, and the nights got longer. It became cold, and snow began to fall.
When the cold winter came, the Grasshopper realized that the ant was right and should have been prepared. The Grasshopper didn’t feel like singing anymore. He should not have wasted all his time when food was plentiful.  He was now cold and hungry.
He hadn’t thought that this winter might be worse than usual. And because he hadn’t stored food for himself or helped anyone else to do it, he would not live to see another summer. He had nowhere to shelter from the snow and found himself dying of hunger – while it saw the ant enjoying the food stored and collected in the summer.